OTTO WG Minutes 10/21/15
STATUS: Approved

## Voting Members Attending:
 - Mike Schwartz
 - Judith Bush
 - Keith Hazelton
 - Janusz Ulanowski
 - Keith Uber (welcome!)
 
## Non-voting members

George Fletcher
Rainer Hoerber
Jim Willeke

## Plan for IIW next week

We're going to schedule an extra meeting next week on Tuesday at IIW, hopefully between 10:00am and 
at the latest 12:00pm to have a partial in person working session on schema definition. 
Weds we're going to keep the normal time to either continue the schema definition,
or if its appropriate, perhaps consider some way to check our data structure to ensure
compatibility with a signed ledger data structure.

## Quick discussion on Contact Types

We had a quick discussion of the email below from Judith on contact types. 

DNS and InCommon both ask for Admin and Technical contacts. Billing is 
and owner is specific to DNS. InCommon captures also security information
to collaborate on incident response, and a support contact.

Keith reports that the InCommon contact info is used by the federation operators,
and members. Mike commented that over the years, Gluu hasn't used it much for the
institutions it serves. Rainer reported that his government federation has another
source for contact information, and that they are careful about not disclosing 
PII in the public federation records.  Mike commented that standardizing how 
contact info should be shared is probably useful, and federations can decide if
they want to use it.

This discussion needs to be re-visited when we get deeper into the schema 
definition. For example, how will contact data be attached--to an organization, or to an entity.
For example, maybe the website, and the IDP (OP) has different contacts.

    -------- Original Message --------
    Subject: [WG-OTTO] Contact types
    Date: 2015-10-20 18:39
    From: "Bush,Judith" <bushj@oclc.org>
    To: OTTO Working group <wg-otto@kantarainitiative.org>
    
     
    We've said in some calls that the contact types should be the DNS
    contact types. It's not clear to me that we should determine the contact
    types but provide a way for the federation to indicate which are
    required. 
    
    DNS RFC-1591: 
    There must be an administrative contact and a technical contact for each
    domain. 
    
    RANDOM DOMAIN REGISTRARS: 
    
    Owner/registrant 
    Administrator 
    Technical 
    Billing 
    
    INCOMMON: 
    
    There are four types of contacts in Federation metadata: 
    
        * technical contact: for direct communication between InCommon
    participants regarding technical issues such as troubleshooting
    software, systems, or networking issues
        * administrative contact: for direct communication between InCommon
    participants and by institutional users regarding non-technical issues
    such as attribute release policy, on-boarding issues, privacy, assurance
    certification and assurance qualifiers, etc.
        * security contact: for direct communication between InCommon
    participants regarding security matters, especially for the purposes of
    Federated Security Incident Response
        * support contact: for end-user technical support but may also handle
    questions from users regarding attribute release policy, user privacy,
    access issues relating to assurance, etc.
    
    All are important in different scenarios, and participants are
    encouraged to provide at least one of each type. At least one technical
    contact is REQUIRED in metadata. At least one administrative contact is
    REQUIRED as well. 
    

## Judith's email on linked data

Judith gave a quick summary of her email: When you're referring to something, you use the URI as the identifier. 
Using this technique, it encourages pointing to locations, rather than replicating the data. 

Will data in the federation be public? If not, there would need to be an
access management strategy to obtain access. 

Many federations are public--education, e-government for example. It is possible
that other federations would have private information--in IOT use cases, for example
perhaps a heart monitor posts to a web server, possession of that device might 
be considered PII.

The linked data would provide an underlying reference infrastructure for how data 
is stored in the ledger.

Rainer pointed out that using linked data in the entity metadata in the ledger could support building your own database 
out of the blockchain.


    -------- Original Message --------
    Subject: [WG-OTTO] Rough notes on a linked data representation of OTTO
    Date: 2015-10-20 20:00
    From: "Bush,Judith" <bushj@oclc.org>
    To: OTTO Working group <wg-otto@kantarainitiative.org>
    
     
    Background from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON-LD [1]: " It was a
    goal to require as little effort as possible from developers to
    transform their existing JSON to JSON-LD. This allows data to be
    serialized in a way that is similar to traditional JSON. It is a World
    Wide Web Consortium Recommendation that has been developed by the JSON
    for Linking Data Community Group before it has been transferred to the
    RDF Working Group for review, improvement, and standardization." 
    
    Extra reading about JSON-LD 
    * http://manu.sporny.org/category/json-ld/ [2] 
    ** http://manu.sporny.org/2013/json-ld-is-the-bees-knees/ [3] 
    ** http://manu.sporny.org/2014/json-ld-origins/ [4] 
    ** http://manu.sporny.org/2014/json-ld-origins-2/ [5] 
    ** github has support 
    
    THE 7 BEST PRACTICES FOR PRODUCING LINKED DATA 
    http://www.w3.org/2011/gld/wiki/Linked_Data_Cookbook#Ingredients_for_High_Quality_Linked_Data
    [6] 
    
     The following best practices are described in this document and listed
    here for your convenience: 
    
        * Model the Data
        * Name things with URIs
        * Re-use vocabularies whenever possible
        * Publish human and machine readable descriptions
        * Convert data to RDF
        * Specify an appropriate license
        * Host the Linked Data Set Publicly and Announce it!
    
    Diagrams of the life cycle for data modeling: Linked Data life cycle [7]
    
    
     Some vocabulary guidelines for consideration in your project: 
    
        * To name things, use rdfs:label, foaf:name, skos:prefLabel
        * >> To describe people, use FOAF, vCard
        * To describe projects, use DOAP
        * To describe Web pages and other publications,use
    dc:creatoranddc:description
        * To describe an RDF schema/vocabulary/ontology, use a VoID description
        * >> To describe addresses, use vCard
        * To model simple data, use RDF, RDFS, custom vocabularies
        * To model existing taxonomies, use SKOS
    
    On Monday, the Fyrst Federation forms with the following organizations: 
     Medical Practice of Atown, 
     Hospital of Atown, 
     Atown Scrubs Supply, 
     and Atown Medical School 
    
    1. To kick off the block chain, each organization submits the JSON-LD
    description to the block chain using the OTTO:entity (extension of
    FOAF:agent) and OTTO:organization (extension of FOAF:organization)
    structures. 
    2. Then the Fyrst Federation administrator submits a description of the
    federation using OTTO:Group (extension of FOAF:Group). This is just a
    list because each member is a pointer to data already in the blockchain.
    
    3. Tuesday the Holistic Practitioners of Atown join the Federation. They
    enter their OTTO:entity & OTTO:organization. 
    4. Tuesday afternoon someone tries to authenticate at the Holistic
    Practitioners SP from Medical Practice. Since the latest entry of
    OTTO:Group doesn't point to Holistic Practitioners' entity data, the
    medical practice doesn't authenticate. 
    5. Wednesday afternoon, the HP's check clears and the Fyrst
    administrator enters an new description of the OTTO:Group in the
    blockchain which includes the entity for HP. 
    
    I generated the diagram below with http://plantuml.com/ [8] -- the input
    file follows the diagram 
    
    @startuml 
    ' The following from Section 3 of
    https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/51890/SAML%20MD%20simplified%20overview.pdf,
    with additions from the discussion on Sept 30th 
    
    EntitiesDescriptor -- "*" EntitiesDescriptor 
    EntitiesDescriptor -- "0..*" EntityDescriptor 
    EntityDescriptor -- RoleDescriptor 
    class EntityDescriptor{ 
    entityID() 
    validUntil() 
    } 
    RoleDescriptor <|-- AttrAuthorityDescriptor 
    RoleDescriptor <|-- SSODescriptorType 
    RoleDescriptor -- "0..1" KeyDescriptor 
    SSODescriptorType <|-- SPSSODescriptor 
    SPSSODescriptor -- "0..*" SingleLogoutService 
    SPSSODescriptor -- "0..*" AttributeConsumingService 
    SPSSODescriptor -- "0..*" AssertionConsumerService 
    SSODescriptorType <|-- IDPSSODescriptor 
    IDPSSODescriptor -- "0..*" ArtifactResolutionService 
    IDPSSODescriptor -- "0..*" SingleSignOnService 
    EntityDescriptor -- "0..1" AffiliationDescriptor : has affiliation > 
    AffiliationDescriptor -- "0..1" EntityDescriptor : contains entities > 
    AffiliationDescriptor -- KeyDescriptor 
    EntityDescriptor -- "0..1" Organization 
    Organization -- "0..1" ContactType 
    
    'Now FOAF 
    
    FOAF_Agent <|-- FOAF_Group 
    'The Group class represents a collection of individual agents (and may
    itself play the role of a Agent, ie. something that can perform
    actions).) 
    FOAF_Agent <|-- FOAF_Person 
    FOAF_Agent <|-- FOAF_Organization 
    OTTO_Group --|> FOAF_Group 
    class OTTO_Group{ 
     FOAF_name() 
     'It really seems this should have been members. JEB 
     FOAF_member() 
     OTTO_entityID() 
    } 
    OTTO_Entity --|> FOAF_Agent 
    class OTTO_Entity{ 
     FOAF_name() 
     OTTO_entityID() 
    } 
    OTTO_Organization --|> FOAF_Organization 
    class OTTO_Organization{ 
     FOAF_name() 
     OTTO_contacts() 
    } 
    OTTO_Contact --|> FOAF_Person 
    class OTTO_Contact{ 
     OTTO_contacttype() 
     vCard_whatever() 
    } 
    OTTO_Group -- "0..*" OTTO_Entity 
    OTTO_Entity -- "0..1" OTTO_Organization 
    OTTO_Organization -- "1..*" OTTO_Contact 
    @enduml 
    
     
    
    Links:
    ------
    [1] https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON-LD
    [2] http://manu.sporny.org/category/json-ld/
    [3] http://manu.sporny.org/2013/json-ld-is-the-bees-knees/
    [4] http://manu.sporny.org/2014/json-ld-origins/
    [5] http://manu.sporny.org/2014/json-ld-origins-2/
    [6] http://www.w3.org/2011/gld/wiki/Linked_Data_Cookbook#Ingredients_for_High_Quality_Linked_Data
    [7] http://www.w3.org/2011/gld/wiki/GLD_Life_cycle
    [8] http://plantuml.com/


## Next week's Meeting Details - at IIW - Time to be announced on Tuesday 10/27 and Weds 10/28 8am PT

Screen Sharing: [https://global.gotomeeting.com/join/162399285](https://global.gotomeeting.com/join/162399285)

 - Audio: Skype: +99051000000481
 - North America Toll: +1 (805) 309-2350
 - Alternate Toll: +1 (714) 551-9842
 - International Toll: http://www.turbobridge.com/international.html

 - Conference ID: 613-2898

    Command Menu: 0 Plays menu of Keypad Commands *3 Promote to Host (if non-host) *5 Raise your hand 
    *6 Mute yourself (toggle on/off) *# Private roll call of participants *\ Mute music-on-hold (toggle on/off)

    TurboPhone (beta): https://www.turbobridge.com/join.html Works with Internet Explorer on Windows only

    SIP Access (using IP phone or soft phone) sip:bridge@turbobridge.com
    SIP URL details: https://www.turbobridge.com/help/Index.html?context=180

