OTTO WG Minutes: 11/10/2016
STATUS: Draft

## Attending:
 - Mike Schwartz
 - Leif Johansson
 - Janusz Ulanowski
 - Yuriy Zabrovarnyy
 - David Walker
 - Andy Gilbert (MCNC)
 - Eric Goodman 
 - Ken Klingenstein

## Notes (not totally complete)

This is an non-WG meeting to get feedback from Leif based on concerns
he raised on the refeds mailing list about trust management.

Background is in minutes from 11/9/16:
 https://github.com/KantaraInitiative/wg-otto/blob/master/minutes/059-otto_minutes-11-9-2016.md

What kind of problems are we trying.

There are reasons why SAML bundles keys with endpoint information:
a way to avoid key hierarchies. One of the issues with Roland's approach
avoids one problem: complex data structures, by introducing a 
complex key hierarchy, and may be as bad as the PKI we were trying to
avoid in the first place. False simplicity can lead to a situation
where you remove something that you have tenfold. 

Are we gaining from removing asymetric keys? 

In Roland's proposal, we are removing the entity keys

Federation operator is a CA and revocation service at the same time 
(loosely). In a metadata aggregate, when you remove an entity,
that is the act of asserting trust and removing the old key at the 
same time. Its an expression of the simplicity--all you have to
do is get the latest federation entity.

You have to analyze the trust propeties of the API you are designing,
how it is equivalent to a simple GET of the metadata aggregate.

Some of the calls are about how you get data into the aggregate--that
doesn't matter to many parties. 

The important stuff is to figure out how to obtain information from the 
aggregate, and how do you trust the result. Today: fetch the whole thing
and update the local copy. That model is straining at the envelope. There
are already a few cases where this process is becoming cumberson. 

Leif see's MDQ as the answer. Mike raised the point that MDQ would require
some discovery service.

Every federation has a local trust oracle--that is the thing you would
talk MDQ to. There doesn't have to be a "home federation". You use the 
local trust oracle to find out where the metadata is. Federations 
are a good policy object but not a good trust management object-SP 
should be able to determine locally who you want to trust.

David Walker: This is why I've been talkign about certifiers. Federation
ties trust to a legal structure--there is value in that. There will be
other entities that cetify things about your domain--multiple legal 
structures. This challenges the notion of a single local oracle of trust.

Leif: The local source aggregates the trust information.

David Walker: How do you do the aggregation. In Roland's solution, you
only get one signer of the metadata statements.

Leif: Take a library example in the UK: available from both EduGain
and UK Access federation. I can give preference to UK Access Federation.
The problem with Roland's proposal is that it puts the burden 
on the asserter of the trust to inlcude the required info, not the 
receiver of the trust. There are other things that go into the trust
decision.

David: In the current model, the organizations trust what the federations,
but does not enable the incorporation of other trust parties.

Leif: You can't make assumptions about what kind of meaning the signature
entails.

Mike: Can MDQ meet these requirements.

Leif: Yes, MDQ can and is doing this today. In simplest case you 
outsource trust management to the federation. But after a while, you 
need to have a little bit of aggregation yourself.  For example, a 
single MDQ server, for the R&S websites. 

Leif: Invite Ian Young to OTTO call. He thinks we're missing aspects 
of how MDQ could be used and extended. Having to introduce a data type
to address OAuth2 is needed. 

Is the federation the first level trust oracle... that needs to change.
How can we efficiently get aggregators to inform and trust each other
about changes. 

If I'm a trust oracle, and talk to edugain--I want certified IDPs. 
I want to efficiently get updates, and publish downstream endpoints
to my relying parties. 

David: However you do the verification, the oracle would have the 
list of public keys of the certifiers that it trusts.

Eric: Is the concern whether the application is talking to the trust
sources or the local oracle? Is MDQ good enough, or does OTTO provide
improvements to the communication?
 
Leif: Leif doesn't care about CRUD stuff--leave that aside. Focus on 
fetching stuff from trust oracle: data types, ok... but for the 
biggest problem with API, not what I saw, but what I didn't see.
The biggest problem is not that we haven't deployed MDG. The biggest
problem is the aggregator-aggregator communication is too slow,
too cumbersome, doesn't scale well. Need an asynchronous update 
mechanism... the problem of who talks to who, and how what are the
data types are incidental.

David: Agreed, but the other thing we need to remember is that the 
aggregation of trust happens at the Edugain level, and needs to 
happen much closer to the organization. We can't entirely fix it with
technology

Leif: If we make it much easier to deploy aggregators. If it's simple
enough to deploy, it can be possible.

Mike: We considered MDQ at OTTO, but found it didn't meet all our 
requirements. For example, how can you query by entityID for an
OpenID Connect RP (which has no such entityID--a different client ID 
is issued by each OpenID Provider)? Also, MDQ seems tightly bundled
with SAML / XML metadata... not developer friendly. Part of the 
challenge was to make a more flexible query mechanism--OTTO offers
filters and "depth" (depth is a way to specify which types of objects
you want to return...). While you might say the backend datatype doesn't
matter, in order to make the right kind of queries, it helps if you
have stored the data in a manner condusive to searching. Furthermore,
http://schema.org provides a base schema, and an easy way to extend.
Linked data was designed to help search engines index websites more
efficiently and provide more meaningful search results--we can use the 
same strategy for federation data.

## Summary / Action Items

1. Leif thinks the simplicity of a federation publishing its metadata
should be maintained.

2. Maybe we should give MDQ more consideration--invite Ian Young as a 
guest to the OTTO WG to provide a deeper overview.

3. Roland's spec involves the SP pushing signed data, moving complexity
out of the federation, but perhaps creating more complexity than it
eliminates. However, OpenID Connect presents some new challenges,
especially around the lack of an RP entityID that need consideration.






