OTTO WG Minutes: 12/14/2016
STATUS: Draft

## Voting Members Attending:
 - Mike Schwartz
 - Janusz Ulanowski
 - Yuriy Zabrovarnyy
 - David Walker
 - Judith Bush
 - Meg Joshi
 - Keith Hazelton

## Non-voting members
 - Andrew Hughs
 - Colin Wallis

## Special Guest:
 - Ian Young


## Notes on Conversation with Ian

MDQ arose in 2008 as a result of a conversation with Chad.
White paper introduced the concenpt of Metadata Oracle, and
interfederation by exchange of metadata, aggregation engines,
and protocol as being the way entities would acquire metadata.

What's in the MDQ protocol is scoped to that last requirement.
Simple protocol based on HTTP. Acquire metadata assocaited 
with a single entity.

Oracle would be trustworthy, but providing some way of verifying
the metadata is what you're expecting. 

Started out with a lot of stuff tangled into the original spec,
including a way to deal with a missing entityID--sometimes you 
just have a hash of that value.

Base specification for how to acquire things.

A specific SAML case where you don't have the entityID but a transformed
value for it. 

The base spec says nothing about what entity identifier is. So some use
cases have been defining an identifier for that particular query response.

In the InCommon pilot we had an "all-IDPs" identifier.

You can constrain the responses by using an identifier, especially if 
you want to sign. Avoids unbounded searching...

Searching for arbitrary things is not desirbable. 

Shibboleth SP has been updated to support MDQ, Shib IDPv3, SimpleSAMLphp

UK Access Federation has a pre-computation version.

The request can specify a mime type to tell the MDQ server how to 
format the response. For example, XML/SAML or JSON/OTTO, or formatted
html for a browser.

The MDQ spec discussed making a query/search syntax, but decided it wasn't really needed, and not to engage in speculative development. Didn't want to 
put a burden on implementers. Concerned about DOS for dynamic search
and query and signing...

Cautious of rollout of MDQ:

1) Avoid arbitrary queries
2) Implement it with completely static responder--no runtime computation
6,000 - 10,000 entities and thousands of responses.

Ian things exchanging metadata is analagous to DNS. Something like EDUGain
seems to be a fairly good reflection of a "regional hub". In terms of 
a model in which large aggregates are moved around, and adapted to local
use--it's fundamental to the current conception. The participants like 
EDUGain have their local clients who are asking them for metadata, and
have arrangments with them about what will be provided and the level or 
trust.  And its difficult to see how that will be done without the 
federation operator. A very important part of the process is that 
individual registrars have different policies and procedures, and 
making different decision about what to pass through to the client.

Ian made an analogy between hosts files --> DNS. It's actually more efficient.
If you have a 2GB metadata file... its slow and hard to process. Not a direct
analogy, because DNS is so small -- just an IP address, whereas the average
SAML IDP is 7k--mutliple certificates.

One reason that the per entity will co-exist is due to discovery--need 
some way to represent metadata. 




